---
title: Shooter
layout: default
---

I woke up, got dressed, and walked into the kitchen.

John already washed his dishes, brewing the coffee, and the bagel was already in the toaster.

I poured myself a cup of coffee, start toasting the bagel, sat down at the table, started to read the book left unfinished on the table.

The name of the book is called the The Alchemist, it's a story about a boy Santiago who longs to travel the world. Much like John and myself, we move from place to place, although rarely intended to do so.

I stopped my car by the almost empty basketball court. Only one boy there running and shooting the basketball. I sat down at the bench, took my time for my bagel and my second coffee, and read some more of that book.

About a dozen pages after, I finished my bagel, and walked to John. John passed me the ball and we practiced some more jump shots, most among the free throw line.

It's all about fundamentals: catch the ball at the right rhythm, prepare the ball to shoot the same way every time. Split the feet, bend the knees the right amount, power arise from the ground to the leg, to the waist, to the back --- relaxed, not stiff, to the arm, to the release. Everything should be in one motion, as if you just jump, the ball then shoot itself.

We ran the drills without much talking. The fundamentals being fundamentals, meaning that you don't have to mention them. You should know when something was correct, not my conscious, but the reaction of the body. You just feel wrong.

John spent many early mornings and late nights shooting the ball. He would be in all solitude, the only man among the street lights and the rims. He would shoot the ball as if he was speechless communicating with the rim. He might be just a boy shooting all alone, but he wasn't lonely, the rim would be always there.

We shot about fifty jumpers that morning, I threw him the jumper shirt and then drove him to school.


John took very little time for his age to got use to this type of life of constant moving. Having a mechanic job in the air force, moving around all the time is the hardest part for the children. They usually end up moving just about the time they got to know their friends.

Therefore, John picked friends to spend time with who will move with him: the rim, and books.

When he got the chance to play with other kids, he always took the strongest kid that no one else wanted, got thrown on the ground, he would just pat the dust out and keep going.

"He's a good kid, I will take him." That's what the coach said when he saw John for the first time.

"I recognize that kid." said the coach: "he would do anything to stay on the court, and only the winner got to stay on the court. I liked that."

John never wanted to lose, I guess that's why he got to stay on the court.


On our way driving to school, I asked: "So the game is today?"

"Yeah." John answered without moving his eyes away from the book.

"Who's the opponent?"

John mentioned a name.

That name belonged to a school had quite a reputation for its basketball program. Very well trained and coached, they might compete for a championships title.

"Nervous?"

"No." He answered quite quickly.

"Play defense, leave the offense to Joe, this will be a good match."

"What kind of set do you guys run?" I asked.

John put both his index fingers on the top his head, as if they are the horns of an ox.

"Horns?" I asked.

"Yeah, mostly turn to pick and rolls for Joe."

I park the car by the side of the road.

"Draw it to me."

John took a pen and a piece of paper out of the school bag, quickly drew me some X's and O's.

I had a quick glance over them, then I drew another one and handed to him.

"Get it?"

"Yeah, he nodded."

"But the ball won't be here." He pointed at one place on the paper.

"Joe will have the ball."

"The ball will be there." I looked into John's eye.

"Joe is a good kid, the ball will be there."


John never said another word on the way, he wasn't reading that book either.

We arrived. John jumped off the car.

"You forgot this." I passed him the paper.

He took it, turned and running into school.

He was thinking about something, I could tell.


By the time I finished the day's work, it was almost ten.

The work was demanding, it almost drained all my energy out of me. It was an endless chain of work to do, all the vehicles aligned up as if they will reach the end of the world.

By the time I walked into the court, there are only couple of minutes left to the game.

It didn't took me that long to realize who was it that everybody came to watch. Joe was something special that night. He would run throw the crowd and threw the ball into basket from the most unpredictable angles. The way he sprint the court and split into every impossible gap looked like a deer. He carried a certain elegance that you rarely resembled on a teenage boy. It almost as if every body else on the court was playing sport, while he was performing a dance.

The girls would cheer every time Joe catch the ball. What they wouldn't realize was that their star was exhausted. This game was a game between the hunters and a deer. Both parties were breathing their lungs out. This was a game between Joe's talent and their discipline. So far the game was surprisingly close. 

Then would be the time every kid ever played basketball would dream about: last minute of the game, the super star dribble the ball over the court, points his finger on a spot and said, I will shoot the buzzer beater right there, and would deliver exactly that. The star would distinguish himself among every body else with a shine, he would catch the ball as if he's warrior in the tales taking over his sword to slay the dragon. He would catch it, square up, jump and shoot it with such soft release like a lover's touch. The ball would draw a beautiful curve, crushing all opponent's hope going into it, touching nothing but the net.

John would never thought about that. I knew that for sure.

He was facing the best player of the opposing team, sweat flow though his body as if it was gliding through ice. John could not jump or run, and he would never be the focus on the court, all he could do, was to put his body on the player he was guarding, who had at least 20 pounds on him.

And that was exactly what he did.

John could barely kept his feet on the floor, but he managed to forced the opponent dribbled the ball into a corner, where there would be a trap waiting.

Joe took him by surprise and stripped off the ball. The entire stadium was on fire while Joe was dribbling the ball over half court.

There was less then a minute left. The coach on the bench was waving his hand in front his chest and yelling something. What he was yelling no could hear. Joe saw the two fingers the coach reached out of his fist, so he tried to yell something to his teammate. But no one could here as well.

He then puts both of his index finger on the top of his head.

Horns, that was the signal.

John saw that, he then ran into the corner.

Joe passed the ball, then ran right into the corner. He knew the ball would come right back to him, all the teammate would clear out the floor.

Seats would be ready, the stage would be made, everything for the big show.

He cut to the corner, setting a screen for John, allowing him to cut the other side. He would then move back up to the top, taking the enemy one on one, like the old style heroes in the black and white TV.

What he didn't realize, was that the hunt has yet finished. It wouldn't take too much intelligent to know the game was eventually between the discipline of a team and the talent of one player. Every body in the stadium knew the ball would be back into Joe's hands. This the finale of the hunt: the hunter would deceive the deer so it believed that it had escape the hunt, while the last trap was just ahead waiting.

When the deer realized what the hunters were doing, he was already surrounded by three people. He could feel the breath and the sweat of the hunters. They had been chasing him all game, and before this, they couldn't even touched his jersey.

He was trapped.

The cage forged by six arms was crushing on him. Joe knew he would have to make a decision, this would be a time for a hero, and he suppose to be a hero.



Later in his life, Joe watched the tape of that game many times. What he never quite figured out was that why that transfer student would all of a sudden make a different play. By the time he was surrounded by three people, that kid silently move into the spot where he would have all the solitude of the world.

That night after the game, I ended up drove John to the shore before we went back home. John talked a lot, about that game, about other things as well. He talked about that that moment, how that he never really thought about the ball or the shooting, how that his mind was clear, how there was no longer the game or the stadium or crowd. There was just him and the rim, an old friend, much like the rest of the days: a quiet boy, street lamps of the early mornings and the late nights, how an old friend never let you down.

"It's called enlightened." John said. He said he read that from a book.

I suppose he was right.








