---
title: Shooter, V3
layout: default
---

A man and a boy walked out of the gym. The night was dark and the night was tender. It was hot, humid and dusty in day time but at night things started to settle down and the air carried a sweet smell. It was late and every one had left. The gym was crowded but it was late and everyone have left. There was without sight of men other thant the two walking out of it. They stopped in the shadow made by a tree with a eletric light shone a gentle, orange light over it. There was a road in front, a car passed by and vanished at the end of it. Then it was complete silence.

"Do you want some ice cream?" the man asked.

"No."

"Why not, it's a hot day. What about a walk?"

"I'm tired." said the boy. He sat down at the stairs and the man sat down with him.

"That was a good game." the man said.

"I guess."

"It was, that I'm sure." said the man. "some real nice shots."

"One of them, I guess."

"No, one of them was _especially_ nice." answered the man.

"Just when did you arrive?"

"About 10 minutes left in the second half."

"Work?"

"Yeah, a lot of work." the man said. There were oil stains and smell of machines on him, the boy could smell it.

"At least you made it this time."

"Saw some good stuff too."

"Joe was pretty amazing."

"Wasn't the only good thing I saw."

"Those guys played well, they should have win."

"Well trained. With a little luck this could be a different story." said the man.

"They say Joe will be a star, may even play in the NBA one day."

"Yeah, maybe. Special kid. Every other guy come to watch him." the man said.

"Coach said if we play defence, the game will take care of itself."

"And you think he meant _Joe_ would take care of the game." the man said to the boy."Well, he got it wrong this time. _Someone else_ made the game winning shot." 

"Without Joe that wouldn't happen, so doesn't matter who made the shot anyway." said the boy.

"A made shot is a made shot." said the man. "How was that book you are reading?"

"_The Alchemist_? I like it"

"Yes. What was it about?"

"A kid following his dream, traveled around the world ."

"Kinda like we do."

"Just not chasing any dreams."

"How many places we moved in the last few years?"

"First north California at Castle, then Germany at Ramstien, Oklahoma at Atlus, then England at Bentwaters." said the boy.

"Then back to California at Edward, then to here at Shaw. That was a lot of air bases." said the man.

"You are a big boy now. You can manage yourself."

"Maybe."

"You even took care of me." said the man. "You bought groceries this morning before you left to shoot, you even made me breakfast."

The boy smiled silently and briefly.

"All these moving around and working aren't easy and I appreciated the help." the man said. "Did you shoot well this morning?"

"Usual."

"That's good."

"What is?"

"The morning shots. You usually shot well don't you?"

"I guess."

"Were you thinking you are going to make big shots tonight?"

"No." said the boy. "I didn't even know I could play."

"Of course you will play, you practiced hard."

"I'm new here, the coach doesn't know me much."

"Have some faith. You praticed hard and you shoot well." asked the man. "You can play ball."

"But I just didn't _know_ I will play."

"That's why it's called faith." said the man. "It's believing it when you don't know for sure."

"But what difference does it make? Say I belived it, then what? We will move, and things come back to where it was."

"You work hard on it and you shoot well, that doesn't change wherever you go." said the man.

"If we move, nobody would know me and I won't play. I can shoot I can not shoot, no difference when you can't play."

"You played hard and shoot well, I don't see why you can't play anywhere."

"Because I will be new and nobody will belive in me." the boy said. "Nobody will have faith in me making those shots."

The boy was then silent, as he always did. The man looked up, the sky was without stars. It was quiet, without much sound other than the summer insects.

"Joe and coach had faith in you." said the man.

"How?"

"The coach drew that play and Joe passed the ball to you, didn't they?" said the man. "Seems like you are the only one that doesn't have faith in yourself."

"I had no idea if I could make it, I just let it fly." said the boy.

"Nobody knows if the ball is going in util it goes in, but if nobody shoot it, it will never go in." said the man. "You practised hard and well for it, might as well be you who make the shot when the time comes."

"The what? We will move to somewhere new, and this will start all over again."

"Only next time you'll faith some faith perhaps. You will make more shots, until people have faith in you." said the man. "Plus, we won't be moving like this forever. It's tough always be the newcomer, that I admit, but once this is finished, you'll be known as a shooter. People will have faith in you."

The boy remained silent, looking towards the sky. The man looked up, it was a night without stars.

"So what were you thinking when you caught the ball at the heating moment?" the man asked.

"I wasn't thinking much really."

"It was plenty of people and noise, and little time left on the clock."

"I can't see them, I can't hear them." said the boy. "I just don't remember there was much when I got the ball."

"Did you feel like it's going in?"

"I don't know, but now that I think of it," said the boy. "It wasn't that different from the shots I take every morning."

"So, you were thinking: this is feeling good, it's going in."

"No, it was like I'm standing in this clean, well lighted place, all by myself."

"Solitary." Said the man.

"_Enlightened_" said the boy. "I think that's what they call it in the book"

Then the boy stood up, trying to catch some breeze, so did the man.

"Want some ice cream now?" asked the man.

"They'll be bad for me."

"Drinking is bad for you. Many talented ruined by it and you should never do it. You could always have some ice cream,  especially when you had a good day, or a really bad one." said the man.

"Like today." said the boy.

"You are young, hardworking and you can shoot pretty jump shots. With some faith and you could have anything. When all these moving around ends, everyday will be a good day." the man said. "Also, today _is_ a good day. I had a good day's work and you played a good game, made a good shot and your team won. We could have some ice cream for that."

"Are there any ice cream shop open? It's late."

"There must be. We will find it and have ice cream. Tomorrow I will wake up the same way and work, you will wake up the same way and shoot. I know I would, I know you will." said the man. "I have faith in that."

"Come one, let's go get some ice cream." said the man, standing up, walking to his car.